Hi and welcome back.
So let's continue looking at packages and impuls.
So we saw in the last video how we could essentially specify exactly what we wanted exported from validators
and we were able to using this technique which basically do the imports that we want inside the validators
module code inside the Dundreary in it which means that in the main the p y.
All I had to do was import common validators.
And then I would have direct access to these methods to these functions that I wanted.
So this made life easier for our users.
Now let's go ahead and do something similar but now I'm going to use some nested packages as well.
So let's go ahead and let's see if we're writing an application and it has data models so I'm going
to call this package models and models maybe is going to have things like users.
OK.
So I've another package for users and other models.
I'm going to have maybe another package for posts maybe this is a Web site and we have users and posts
and the users may actually.
I'm going to split that up into two different modules.
I'm going to have a user module that's going to contain the object for user and all the help of functions
that I might need.
I might also need on the posts I'm going to need the same thing I might have a post ok module where
I'm going to tell you where I'm going to define the class that I need for a post and maybe some help
of functions and then maybe I also need something for posts because I have you know users can post multiple
posts so I might have to accommodate that and have collections of posts and things like that.
So now let's go ahead and fill out some of the code here.
So let's start with the in it and I'm just going to say that this is the post package and I'll do the
same thing for the users.
So again I just want to write this out here and say what it is.
And then the unit over here is the models package.
OK.
All right.
So that's all in the end that's for now.
Now let's go to post.
So this is the postop P-wave file.
And what do I want to get.
Well I'll probably want a class called post so we'll define a class.
It's not going to do anything.
And maybe I'll try to help a function in here.
So this will be post helper one.
And it's just going to pass and we could have other ones as well.
I'll stick to just using one for posts.
Well very similar.
So this is the Post's duppy why mondial.
And we're going to define a class called post and then we may also have a helper posts.
OK.
And then users are going to be very similar.
This is the user's user Doppie why.
And we might have a classical musician and then we may have some fun or some help that functionals wealth
are usually held to one for example.
OK.
So now that we have this we've got the structure right.
We've got models posts posts and posts users that have a user.
How do we use them in the main package.
So let's go to Maine.
Let me close everything just clean that up.
OK.
How would I do that.
So here I'm importing common just because I want to list what's out you know so if I run this right
now I can see what's in the various packages.
So in my own name spaces.
So in my namespace in my global namespace for the main program I have common and validators.
Well yeah I imported validators This is the symbol right.
I imported common validators as validators so my validator is symbol is in my global namespace and points
to whatever this package is.
And then common I imported commun as well.
So I have here if I don't import Carmen it would not be in my namespace.
OK.
If I had done this.
So I just want to show you that very quickly if I'd done something like this.
OK.
Then of course this code isn't going to waltz Salumi comment that out.
But I just want to show you that we would have common right because we employ a common validators.
But what it does it puts the top level in there.
But if I say import common dock validators as validators it doesn't do that it just puts the validators
in our namespace.
So watch out for that.
That's a little tricky sometimes.
And this is why because I want to have the common reference because I'm listing out the namespace of
common.
I have to import it as well.
OK.
So that's that's the only reason.
So the uncomment this again.
All right.
So this is what we have.
So our main global namespace has validators and common in it.
It doesn't have mobiles.
I mean imported we would have to import it.
So we have to say something like impled common dot models and I'll do it as as models.
OK.
So I'll do that.
Let me go ahead and kind of I don't know I just prefer having it kind of that way having a more general
one above and in the more specific one below.
Let's make this perfect compliant.
OK.
So now I got that and we can take a look at what's inside the models name space.
So let's go ahead and build that up.
So now this is the models so we're going to look at common dot models or just models.
Since I've got both in my name space I can use either.
I'll just use the dotted path notation here.
And let's run this and take a look at what's inside the models name space.
Well it's got the standard kind of Dunder properties and nothing else.
So this means that I cannot access let's say posts by saying something like this saying you know post
let's say John's post equals common dot model's dot posts dot post doc post cake.
There it is.
That's not going to work.
First of all Pi chimey even tells you right here.
But when we write tells us that the common model's module has no attribute posts because we didn't import
it doesn't know about.
So what we would have to do here is the same thing that we had in the beginning with revalidate it would
have to say something like.
Import common got models.
Doffed posts data close.
OK.
And now this would work.
Now this is going to work just fine because that's been imported.
OK but again what's happening here is I'm forcing the user of my models package to know where things
live.
OK in order to get the post they have to import that if they want to get posts or user they have to
say important common darf models dot posts dot posts.
Ok so now they can say you know John posts equals commande out models that post Clopton posts daft posts.
Ok so it's modeled up posts top posts.
And if they want to use are they going after say John equals common models.
God uses dark to use a dot using K.
Now all this will work just fine.
Models users will I have to import it.
I haven't done that.
Import common data models that are users darte user.
I have to import that now everything will run just fine.
Go ahead and run it and you can see it run fine so it was able to find those objects and create the.
But of course this is really tedious for our users and they also have to understand how we structured
our code which really has nothing to do with how they want to be able to use the models.
Ideally we'd just import common models and then we'd find posts and posts and user directly on the models.
But we've seen how we can do that with validators.
So let's go ahead and do the same thing.
But now let's do this with our nested packages.
So let's go ahead and clean this up and we're going to use the exact same approach that we did with
validators write with validators.
We use this in Pollstar technique and then we use this Dunder all property that we could specify both
in the package itself that the init file as well as in the individual modules.
We could specify what we want to actually export.
So let me go ahead and just cause everything let's clean that up and let's start working our way through
it.
So let's start with posts.
Well the first thing we want to do is specify what we want to actually export from here.
So we only want to export post and post what you want to export is in the post class nothing else.
That's the only symbol we want to export.
We have to now clean up the init.
So init.
Now we want to pool those symbols from post and post into the post package.
So we're going to say we can use relative imports from posts in Pollstar and from post import stuff.
But of course we also want to make sure that we're not exporting posts and post itself because if we
do this what's going to be in the namespace of posts while it's going to be all the symbols from the
posts Mondial all the symbols from the post module as well as symbols for posts and post.
Let's take a look we can see that in the main file.
So now I don't have to import these anymore.
I can remove that and of course I don't need this one at all.
The way we would reference post now is just to go to posts to the post package inside the models package
and we can now actually look at what's inside the Post's package.
OK so we can look at common dot models.
DOPs posts so we can see what's inside this package.
Let's run this and we can see that in the Post's package we have the Post's object.
The Post object but we also have these two modules posts and post.
We can go to the posts to wherever we're loading this up is in here and here we need to specify what
do we want to export.
Well what do I want to export.
I want an export everything that's in posts that's being exported from post and post so I'm just going
to use the same technique as the floor to take posts under all.
And we're going to concatenate that with post under all so that's all we need to do to export the specific
symbols that we want out of posts and post.
So now in our main program we can just import common models posed and then we have these.
We can use models posts posts and everything works as expected.
So now let's do the same thing to users.
We need to basically do the same thing here.
So we're going to say from a relative import to user import stuff.
And I'm going to specify the all property as well to be just simply the users under old properties.
I don't have to actually concatenate anything here.
So now if we go back to main we can do the same thing here.
We don't have to import users not users.
We can just import users.
And now we can reference the user class directly from the users package because it's been imported via
the impled stuff and then specifying the donder all the bits.
Which means that we're now limiting what symbols are being exported.
So for example we won't see it use the help of one being exported Neither into this package here or
in this one.
Now this one doesn't do anything yet right.
So we'll fix that in a second.
Let's go ahead and make sure this works fine.
And it tells us that common model uses user has no attribute done at all.
So that's because we need to specify the Dondre all attribute in him to specify what we want to export.
OK.
All right.
So now we have the Dunder in it done for the uses package.
It's just you know basically only take the single module user that posts gets things from to submodules
the posts and posts submodules.
And now we should begin to go in our main Bakhit in our main program and as we can see it ran just fine.
OK.
And we can see posts post the two modules that were loaded inside the posts package but then we see
that we have the posts and the post directly available under the posts package as opposed to having
to dig down one more level to adult post adult posts to get to these two things here.
Now obviously we want to pull them up one more level right.
Ideally we want to be able to just say common dot models import that and then say commande up Mols dot
post the class directive.
How do we do that.
Well it's just one more level.
So all we need to do now is go to the models package.
This is the models package and we're just going to say from our relative import from posts in coldstone
and from users import stock.
So now we have both those things.
And again I'm going to specify the whole.
I don't have to.
OK.
Let me show you what happens if I don't do that.
It's OK.
So we can run everything runs just fine.
But let's go ahead now and change this.
Let's remove that and Drogo of that case.
Now we're just importing commandant models and now our users can access the models classes directly
inside the models package that make sure everything runs just fine.
Code 0.
But let's say that they do something like this servicing import commandant models.
They want to do something like this.
They want to say from common models.
Simple stuff.
Now that's not something really that we should be doing and code it pollutes the namespace.
You can run into you know conflicts where you have different packages that have the same names and so
you run into those issues that we've discussed before.
But if we do this we could then technically just use it this way.
We can remove all that stuff and we can just import we can just use these imports directly and we'll
want to see what's in these cells.
So I'm not going to worry about this package anymore.
Let's run this and let's see what we have in our global namespace.
And you'll notice that we have in our global namespace as we have these objects posts post these classes
that we define user but then we also have the package's posts and users and maybe we want to make it
easy for our users so that if they do an important star at least those are not going to show up.
Well again that's very simple.
In the Dundreary init for models we're going to restrict what symbols would be exported if somebody
used an import stuff.
So we would say donder all equals posts under all plus.
And I could put on one line but I'm just going to stick to this one.
Plus users under all.
OK so now if we do this and we rerun you'll notice what's inside our Global's ourself.
We have posts and posts and user those classes those data models but we no longer have the posts and
uses packages in there.
But of course that only works if you are exporting or importing using an import stuff.
Remember that this Dunkel only applies to import styles in our main.
That's not what we should be doing anyways.
That's not considered good practice.
We shouldn't be importing things this way.
We should be importing things this way and then we still have then to refer to common dock models.
Now if you wanted to we could say you know import this commande up models as models we can alias it.
And now we could say models that pose models of posts and models that use it.
So if we look at that cross it runs fine and then we'll see that in our global namespace we just have
models and under models we are then able to access post posts and users.
We can take a look at what's inside the models for example.
So for models we can see that those symbols are indeed in their
i'll just have to look at the dictionary namespace dictionary for models and let's see where we get.
So here's the namespace dictionary for models.
We have posts posts and user.
And obviously we have the two packages that we've been using where we're pulling things from which are
posts and uses.
So this is how you can use the Dunner init files an important import doubles and the donder all property
to kind of flatten your things out.
Right so now our users no longer have to understand how our code is structured and the models they just
have to import models and then they can use the you know the data models directly the posts and the
user and so on.
So much simpler for the end users.
And if you're consuming your own packages Well same thing it's going to make your life easier if you
can write code like this as opposed.
And this as opposed to having to nest yourself down based on how you structured the code which is really
just an internal implementation detail that doesn't need to be surfaced.
And so we can use that technique to flatten things out and make the all the entire data model a little
simpler to understand.
One thing that I'd like to mention is the Dundreary in net the dunderheaded.
Remember as we discussed it is just the code for the module.
And so you'll find that sometimes people will do things like this.
Let me go ahead and write that say a another package.
So let's go and let's call this.
You know maybe help us out.
Call helpers and in the dunderheaded.
What I'm going to do for helper's
is I might have let's say a subclass of submodule in here.
Let's say I'm going to call a calculator.
So this is going to be a module and this is the calculator darte.
Why file.
And here I'm going to make these do a dunder all as well and that's just going to be equal to that favor
Kelk object which I'm going to define now.
OK.
And maybe it has some help as well.
But only thing I want to export from there is the Kelk get object class.
So here in the Dondre in that I might say something like from calculative.
So I'm using a real import.
I'm not going to use an import style.
I know that I only want to let's say to import calc.
So I'll do it this way.
OK.
But now what I can do is I can add some additional functionality in this thing I can add some code.
I could say.
Def say hello for example and I'd pass in the name and I'm going to return.
You know just hello name.
OK something like this.
Or am I defined.
Another function may be DAPH factorial.
Let's do a factorial in here and we'll pass an n and we'll say if an is less than or equal to one return
the one else return and times factorial of and minus one something like this for example.
Ok so I can add other code inside this in it because this is what it is the code file associated with
the helpers module because it is a module.
It's a package.
Sure but it's also a module.
So no it's I don't mean I could do this I could say Imphal helpers and now that I've got helpers in
hishe and actually let me I'll leave that code in.
I could now say helper's dots.
Now I can create a calc I can find CALKIN they can so I can say calc equals helper's calc.
That should be in there.
Right.
We were on this.
Everything.
No module named helper's because I put helpers under common sorry's so import common helpers.
OK so now let's run this.
Everything runs just fine.
We were able to create this calc but also now we also have under helper's we also have things like for
example say hello Python.
OK.
Or we could also say I just is going to print this out.
We could also print out helper's dot com actually import come and help as I have to say common right.
That help is or I could just do import common helpers
as helpers in this way.
So now I can just use kalpas directly.
OK so help us say hello and helper's let's say factorial
of 5.
OK.
And so we can run this code and as you can see we get hello Python and we get the factorial of five
which is a 120.
And this is something that you'll find in various locations you'll find that even in the standard library
this kind of technique is used personally I don't like it.
I think of the Dunder in it and especially given the name that the file has in its initialization.
I don't put code that's functional code inside my initialises I don't do that let's say inside a class
and put you know things like that in a Dundreary net in a class it would be just for the initialization
of the class.
So the same deal happens here.
The fact that we can do it doesn't mean that we should.
So let me clean this up.
Let's close all let's reopen this.
So I don't like this technique here.
I think that the Dundrum it should be used for import related things only.
For example let's take a look at a good example of that and it can get complicated.
Let's do an a sink IHO let's look at the async IO library.
That's part of the standard library that a single package.
And let's actually go and look at the code in that package as you can see it's got you know quite a
bunch of code.
It's it's not just simple stuff it has to you know it imports this module.
It has to try except it's trying to import this the selectors.
If not I'd go back and look you know it looks for it elsewhere.
If the platform is a Windows platform then it does various things it tries this import otherwise that
import.
OK and then here's what skying Here's is where it's kind of packaging things together now and then doing
the the Donder also that if somebody doesn't import stuff from async IO they'll just get these symbols
being exported.
OK.
And then we have even more things over here with statements this is OK it's code but it has to do with
building up this package called async IO.
On the other hand you could look at something like for example the e-mail package.
So email is a package as well in the standard library and we can go and look at the code in there.
And so so far so good.
Right it's importing those done all while importing it specifying what the exports are.
OK.
So it's you know doing them by hand one by one and then look at this.
Then you have these things here a message from string message from bytes K message from string is right
here a message from bytes.
So the functions that are being exported are actually defined right inside this thing over here.
OK.
And so to me that's not where I would put it.
I wouldn't put those things in there.
That's that's just me.
OK.
I don't like that approach that much.
Maybe there was a reason for doing this maybe it was a backward compatibility reason.
I'm not sure but if we look at the e-mail package itself you can see what it looks like.
Right.
This is just what we were looking at right now.
And so here we have e-mailed a passer imports bite's bounces so it looks like it's the import is inside
this function.
But as you know once you do that that means that e-mail that Pansa got loaded.
Right it because Python had to do this impled.
So it had to load e-mail load pouncer and load bytes pouncer as well.
So if we look now at the pouncer that's right here.
Let's go ahead and see this.
You'll see that it also has its imports and it's now importing submodules or sub package you know submodules
in this case you know and exploiting those spouses symbol and so on.
But that's only part of why that's a module I expect code to live in there.
What I don't expect is that some of the functions are actually defined in the donder in it.
So this is just personal preference.
I wouldn't do it that way.
But of course you know depending on your circumstance you may want to do it this way for some reason.
Generally though we don't do that.
We restrict our initializations to be things that are going to be just for the packaging of stuff.
And of course it can get complicated as we saw with a single or.
Right.
It can.
It can get pretty complicated.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.